Minimal LXDE **not** recommended for laptops. In my case, LXDE is installed on a work station with fixed displays. Network is local on `eth0` via the [TRENDnet TEW-647GA](https://www.google.com/search?q=TRENDnet+TEW-647GA) wireless adapter.

Even though both [[Minimal LXDE]] and [[Minimal GNOME]] install a basic version of desktop, keep in mind that LXDE is much lighter than GNOME. Choose LXDE if you want a super lean desktop, you don't mind manually installing and setting up additional packages on top of LXDE (which can be challenging), and you don't care much about the visual appeal. On the other hand, GNOME provides many of the packages such as pulse audio, a display manager, a wireless network manager, a PDF viewer right out of the box. You will find that most of them will be needed at some point and need to be installed anyways.

Before you start, **make sure you don't already have a desktop installed**. Follow instructions on [[Debian Installation]]. There, when you choose "Expert Install", you will have the option to not to install any desktop. This allows us to install a bare minimum desktop based on LXDE here.

## Display Manager

`sudo apt-get install lightdm`

1. From ArchWiki, "A display manager, or login manager, is typically a graphical user interface that is displayed at the end of the boot process in place of the default shell." Possible candidates:
    * CDM (Console Display Manager) - ultra-minimalistic, yet full-featured login manager written in bash.
    * SLiM (Simple Login Manager) - lightweight and elegant graphical login solution.
    * LXDM - LXDE Display Manager. This is the default display manager for LXDE. Can be used independent of the LXDE desktop environment.
    * LightDM - Cross-desktop display manager, can use various front-ends written in any toolkit.
2. Install a light-weight display manager. `sudo apt-get install lightdm` to install the light-weight display manager. This installs 166 new packages including the X server drivers, acl, dbus, lightdm, lightdm-gtk-greeter.
3. After reboot, should see the login screen with only the default x-session available.
4. Can't really log in at this point though. The desktop loading sequence: LightDM --> LXSession --> OpenBox, LXDE. Need to Ctrl-Alt-F1 to open `tty1` to install LXDE (see blow).

## Minimal LXDE

`sudo apt-get install lxde-core lxtask`

1. Install [LXDE](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/LXDE)
    1. On the login screen, Ctrl-Alt-F1 to open `tty1`.
    2. **Install the LXDE core with the minimum feature set**, `sudo apt-get install lxde-core`.
    3. Installs 134 new packages including desktop-file-utils, gksu, gnome-keyring, gvfs, lxde-common (for configuration), lxde-core, lxmenu-data, lxpanel, lxsession, lxterminal, openbox, pcmanfm, xscreensaver. Note missing lxtask as this point. LXDE uses Openbox as the default windows manager.
2. `sudo reboot` and now should be able to login to the desktop.
3. Once logged in, if I type Ctrl-Alt-Del, Openbox shows an error about missing `lxtask`. I have to manually install it `sudo apt-get install lxtask`.

## Multiple Displays

`sudo apt-get install lxrandr`

A very simple desktop GUI for managing multiple displays. Helpful if the external monitors are not fixed (e.g. on a laptop).

## gnome-keyring

Fix the keyring configurations by appending `LXDE`.

1. Edit files `/etc/xdg/autostart/gnome-keyring-*.desktop`
2. Edit `OnlyShowIn=GNOME;Unity;` append `LXDE;`
3. `sudo reboot` and make sure the daemon runs `ps aux | grep keyring`

## LXTerminal

1. LXTerminal preference on a 24" 1920 X 1200 monitor:
    * Droid Sans Mono 15
    * Background #000000, foreground #009900
    * Hide menu bar, hide scroll bar. They can be enabled again by editing `~/.config/lxterminal/lxterminal.conf`.
2. LXTerminal start-up size
    1. `sudo vi /usr/share/applications/lxterminal.desktop`.
    2. Change `Exec=lxterminal` to `Exec=lxterminal --geometry=155x50`.
    3. Must reboot the computer to see the effect.
3. Environment
    * LXTerminal is a _non-login_ shell. The start-up script is `~/.bashrc`, not `~/.bash_profile`. For example, the `PATH` variable should be modified in `~/.bashrc` (see the [Java](java) page for examples). However, to be consistent with the login shells, include `~/.bashrc` in `~/.bash_profile`. There is also `~/.profile`, which is for the generic shell `sh` (`bash` is a specific implementation of `sh`). Its documentation says "~/.profile: executed by the command interpreter for login shells. This file is not read by bash(1), if ~/.bash_profile or ~/.bash_login exists." Also include `~/.profile` in `~/.bash_profile`. Here is what `~/.bash_profile` looks like:

```bash
    if [ -r "${HOME}/.profile" ]; then
        . "${HOME}/.profile"
    fi

    if [ -r "${HOME}/.bashrc" ]; then
        . "${HOME}/.bashrc"
    fi
```
